# SOP for board stuffing.
Both Rev1.1 and Rev3 can have the top side fully stuffed and baked in the reflow oven.
1. Prepare all tool and supplies: Tweezers, solder-paste, napkins, surface mount components, schematic and board layout references.
1. Prepare solder-paste stencil: Place the bare PCB on the table and place the L-shaped supports around it. The L-shaped supports should come with the solder stencil. Tape the supports to the table so they do not slide around. Now align the solder stencil on top of the board and tap the stencil down to the L-shaped supports so that the stencil does not slide around. Apply solder-paste and squeegee/scrape off the excess.
1. Organize surface mount components in whatever is most convenient.
1. Place components one by one on the board with tweezers by referencing the board layout. This is the super long tedious part. Be patient. It’s better to work slow than to mess up. You don’t want to clean a pasty mess.
1. After all the components are placed, carefully remove the board and inspect everything visually under a microscope. Make small alignment fixes where necessary.
1. Carefully place the board in the reflow over and follow reflow procedure.
1. Remove board (CAUTION - HOT). Inspect visually with the microscope. Look for solder bridging. Reflow and remove solder where necessary. Pro tip 1: look at tricky components at an angle so you can see underneath them better. Pro tip 2: use the Metcal solder station. It dumps heat very quickly and regulates its temperature well.
1. Proceed to stuff the bottom of the board by hand with the solder iron. Pro tip 3: don’t use solder irons with tiny tiny tips. The tips rarely get hot enough to melt solder properly. Pro tip 4: For soldering surface mount resistors and capacitors; tin one pad with solder and leave the other one clean. Bring the component close with tweezers in one hand and with the other hand use the iron to reflow the solder while aligning the component into its place. Solder the other pad once the component is being held in its proper place. A similar method should be used for an mcu. Only tin one pad. Aling and place the mcu. That one pad will hold it aligned in place. Then solder the rest of the pins. Don’t worry if you bridge. The Metcal is good at heating up braid for removing solder bridging.
1. Congrats! You are done. Now you can move on to testing and debugging.
